Document vcpkg_make_configure/install (#388)
microsoft/vcpkg-docs: vcpkg/maintainers/functions/vcpkg_make_install.md

---
title: vcpkg_make_install
description: Use vcpkg_make_install to build and install a Make-based project.
ms.date: 01/31/2024
---
# vcpkg_make_install

Build and install a Make-based project.

## Usage

```cmake
vcpkg_make_install(
    [DISABLE_PARALLEL]
    [LOGFILE_ROOT <root-name>]
    [MAKEFILE <makefile-name>]
    [TARGETS <target-name>...]
    [OPTIONS <make-option>...]
    [OPTIONS_RELEASE <make-option>...]
    [OPTIONS_DEBUG <make-option>...]
)
```

To use this function, you must depend on the helper port `vcpkg-make`:

```json
"dependencies": [
  {
    "name": "vcpkg-make",
    "host": true
  }
]
```

## Parameters

### ADD_BIN_TO_PATH

Adds the configure dependent `(debug/)bin` directory to the system path. This is useful if configure builds and runs executables with shared dependencies.

### DISABLE_PARALLEL

> By default, `vcpkg_make_install` will run make with the `-j` option to enable parallel building. If your project does not support parallel builds or you encounter issues with it, set this flag to disable parallel building. This will cause `make` to be executed without the `-j` option, running build steps sequentially.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, `vcpkg_make_install` runs make with the `-j` option to enable parallel building. If your project does not support parallel builds or you encounter issues with it, set this flag to disable parallel building. This causes `make` to be executed without the `-j` option, running build steps sequentially.
```
